 Governor Whitmer Announces Funding to Build and Preserve 484 Affordable Rental Homes (function(w,d,s,l,i){w[l]=w[l]||[];w[l].push({'gtm.start': new Date().getTime(),event:'gtm.js'});var f=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0], j=d.createElement(s),dl=l!='dataLayer'?'&l='+l:'';j.async=true;j.src= 'https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtm.js?id='+i+dl;f.parentNode.insertBefore(j,f); })(window,document,'script','dataLayer','GTM-WTW7M9'); {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"NewsArticle","name":"Governor Whitmer Announces Funding to Build and Preserve 484 Affordable Rental Homes","url":"https://www.michigan.gov/mshda/about/press-releases/2025/07/10/governor-whitmer-announces-funding-to-build-and-preserve-484-affordable-rental-homes","datePublished":"2025-07-10","headline":"Governor Whitmer Announces Funding to Build and Preserve 484 Affordable Rental Homes","inLanguage":"en-US"} Skip to main content New generative AI chatbot now available on Michigan.gov/MSHDA Our new AI chatbot is designed to help you find information more easily on our website. Look for it in the bottom right corner of your screen. For details on how it works, visit the State of Michigan's chatbot information page . LEO MSHDA MSHDA Homeownership Rental Homeless Developers Lenders / Realtors Neighborhoods About Homeownership Go to Homeownership Housing Education Program MI 10K DPA Loan MSHDA MI Home Loan Lending Partners Top Loan Officers 2025 Top Realtors MSHDA Mortgage Credit Certificate (MCC) Lending Partners Housing Education Program Go to Housing Education Program MI 10K DPA Loan Go to MI 10K DPA Loan MSHDA MI Home Loan Lending Partners Go to MSHDA MI Home Loan Lending Partners Top Loan Officers 2025 Go to Top Loan Officers 2025 Top Realtors Go to Top Realtors MSHDA Mortgage Credit Certificate (MCC) Lending Partners Go to MSHDA Mortgage Credit Certificate (MCC) Lending Partners Rental Go to Rental Contact HOME-ARP Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCV) HCV Landlords Project Based Vouchers Property Managers Resources Contact Go to Contact HOME-ARP Go to HOME-ARP HOME-ARP Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCV) Go to Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCV) Housing Choice Voucher Program HCV Landlords Go to HCV Landlords Information for Landlords Project Based Vouchers Go to Project Based Vouchers Information about the Project Based Voucher program. Property Managers Go to Property Managers Property Managers Compliance for Rental Housing Online Systems Management Agents Performance Based Contract Administration HUD Links and Other Resources Asset Management Contacts and Resources Archive Resources Go to Resources Information about assistance for Renters Homeless Go to Homeless Homeless & Special Housing Needs Programs Looking For Help? Michigan&#39;s Campaign to End Homelessness Resources & Related Links Homeless & Special Housing Needs Programs Go to Homeless & Special Housing Needs Programs Programs Looking For Help? Go to Looking For Help? Michigan&#39;s Campaign to End Homelessness Go to Michigan&#39;s Campaign to End Homelessness Resources & Related Links Go to Resources & Related Links State and national links to homeless and special housing needs information. Developers Go to Developers Architects and Contractors Contractor Assistance Program Emerging Developer Resources Employer-Assisted Housing Environmental Review Housing and Community Development Fund (HCDF) Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) Market Research Missing Middle Housing Program MSHDA Housing Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Multi Family Direct Lending Programs Opportunity Zones Pass-Through Bond Program Section 3 Statewide Housing Plan Tribal Nations Housing Development Archive Architects and Contractors Go to Architects and Contractors Standards of Design for Preconstruction manual and forms Contractor Assistance Program Go to Contractor Assistance Program Emerging Developer Resources Go to Emerging Developer Resources Employer-Assisted Housing Go to Employer-Assisted Housing Environmental Review Go to Environmental Review Developers & Contractors Environmental Review Housing and Community Development Fund (HCDF) Go to Housing and Community Development Fund (HCDF) Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) Go to Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) Market Research Go to Market Research Market Research Missing Middle Housing Program Go to Missing Middle Housing Program MSHDA Housing Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Go to MSHDA Housing Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Multi Family Direct Lending Programs Go to Multi Family Direct Lending Programs Information on Direct Lending Parameters, Gap Financing Programs, Equity Bridge Loan Program, Notice of Intent to Apply, LIHTC Application and Exhibit Requirements for Direct Lending Programs, Other Information (Mortgagor and Contractor&#39;s Cost Certification Guide and forms, HOME Subsidy Limits, Direct Lending Intake Forms, Contractor Requirements, and the Modified Pass-Through Program), Parameters Opportunity Zones Go to Opportunity Zones Pass-Through Bond Program Go to Pass-Through Bond Program Information about the Pass-Through Bond Program Section 3 Go to Section 3 MSHDA HUD Section 3 policy and these guidelines have been prepared to provide information and guidance to Section 3 recipients on how the Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA) will administer the Section 3 regulations. Statewide Housing Plan Go to Statewide Housing Plan Milestones Statewide Housing Partnership Tribal Nations Housing Development Go to Tribal Nations Housing Development Archive Go to Archive Lenders / Realtors Go to Lenders / Realtors Become a MSHDA Lender Business Development Account Managers Lenders – Grow Your Mortgage Business with MSHDA Realtors – Grow Your Business with MSHDA Training Become a MSHDA Lender Go to Become a MSHDA Lender Business Development Account Managers Go to Business Development Account Managers Lenders – Grow Your Mortgage Business with MSHDA Go to Lenders – Grow Your Mortgage Business with MSHDA Realtors – Grow Your Business with MSHDA Go to Realtors – Grow Your Business with MSHDA Training Go to Training Neighborhoods Go to Neighborhoods MI Neighborhood Housing Ready MI Neighborhood Go to MI Neighborhood Housing Ready Go to Housing Ready About Go to About Authority Board Meetings Careers at MSHDA Contact MSHDA Events & Training Impact MSHDA Logo Request News Releases Program Guide Public Notices Transparency & Reports Authority Board Meetings Go to Authority Board Meetings Authority Board Members Careers at MSHDA Go to Careers at MSHDA Contact MSHDA Go to Contact MSHDA Contact MSHDA Events & Training Go to Events & Training Events & Training Impact Go to Impact MSHDA&#39;s impact across the state MSHDA Logo Request Go to MSHDA Logo Request MSHDA Logo Request News Releases Go to News Releases News Releases Program Guide Go to Program Guide Public Notices Go to Public Notices Public Notices Transparency & Reports Go to Transparency & Reports MSHDA&#39;s Transparency and Reports Homeownership Rental Homeless Developers Lenders / Realtors Neighborhoods About Back Homeownership Housing Education Program MI 10K DPA Loan MSHDA MI Home Loan Lending Partners Top Loan Officers 2025 Top Realtors MSHDA Mortgage Credit Certificate (MCC) Lending Partners Back Housing Education Program Back MI 10K DPA Loan Back MSHDA MI Home Loan Lending Partners Back Top Loan Officers 2025 Back Top Realtors Back MSHDA Mortgage Credit Certificate (MCC) Lending Partners Back Rental Contact HOME-ARP Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCV) HCV Landlords Project Based Vouchers Property Managers Resources Back Contact Back HOME-ARP Back Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCV) Back HCV Landlords Back Project Based Vouchers Back Property Managers Compliance for Rental Housing Online Systems Management Agents Performance Based Contract Administration HUD Links and Other Resources Asset Management Contacts and Resources Archive Back Resources Back Homeless Homeless & Special Housing Needs Programs Looking For Help? Michigan&#39;s Campaign to End Homelessness Resources & Related Links Back Homeless & Special Housing Needs Programs Back Looking For Help? Back Michigan&#39;s Campaign to End Homelessness Back Resources & Related Links Back Developers Architects and Contractors Contractor Assistance Program Emerging Developer Resources Employer-Assisted Housing Environmental Review Housing and Community Development Fund (HCDF) Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) Market Research Missing Middle Housing Program MSHDA Housing Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Multi Family Direct Lending Programs Opportunity Zones Pass-Through Bond Program Section 3 Statewide Housing Plan Tribal Nations Housing Development Archive Back Architects and Contractors Back Contractor Assistance Program Back Emerging Developer Resources Back Employer-Assisted Housing Back Environmental Review Back Housing and Community Development Fund (HCDF) Back Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) Back Market Research Back Missing Middle Housing Program Back MSHDA Housing Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Back Multi Family Direct Lending Programs Back Opportunity Zones Back Pass-Through Bond Program Back Section 3 Back Statewide Housing Plan Milestones Statewide Housing Partnership Back Tribal Nations Housing Development Back Archive Back Lenders / Realtors Become a MSHDA Lender Business Development Account Managers Lenders – Grow Your Mortgage Business with MSHDA Realtors – Grow Your Business with MSHDA Training Back Become a MSHDA Lender Back Business Development Account Managers Back Lenders – Grow Your Mortgage Business with MSHDA Back Realtors – Grow Your Business with MSHDA Back Training Back Neighborhoods MI Neighborhood Housing Ready Back MI Neighborhood Back Housing Ready Back About Authority Board Meetings Careers at MSHDA Contact MSHDA Events & Training Impact MSHDA Logo Request News Releases Program Guide Public Notices Transparency & Reports Back Authority Board Meetings Authority Board Members Back Careers at MSHDA Back Contact MSHDA Back Events & Training Back Impact Back MSHDA Logo Request Back News Releases Back Program Guide Back Public Notices Back Transparency & Reports View Result for: MSHDA All Michigan.gov Sites /mshda/about/press-releases/2025/07/10/governor-whitmer-announces-funding-to-build-and-preserve-484-affordable-rental-homes Back to MSHDA Search is currently unavailable. Please try again later. Popular on michigan.gov Agriculture and Rural Development Civil Rights Environment Health and Human Services Natural Resources Secretary of State How Do I... Register to Vote Renew My License Plate View Assistance Programs Unsupported Browser Detected The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer. Supported Browsers Google Chrome Safari Microsoft Edge Firefox Governor Whitmer Announces Funding to Build and Preserve 484 Affordable Rental Homes About News Releases July 10, 2025 Contact: press@michigan.gov Governor Whitmer Announces Funding to Build and Preserve 484 Affordable Rental Homes Latest 9% Low-Income Housing Tax Credit awards support 10 developments across six communities LANSING, Mich. &ndash; Today, Governor Gretchen Whitmer announced a new round of investments to support affordable housing across Michigan, awarding federal 9% Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) to 10 new construction and rehabilitation rental housing projects in six communities. This LIHTC round awards more than $14 million in tax credits, with a total value over the next 10 years of about $141 million. The 10 projects will create 23 permanent jobs, support 808 temporary jobs, and generate a total development investment of over $171 million. The projects will create or preserve at least 484 affordable rental homes. &ldquo;In Michigan, we are making record investments into housing so we can increase supply and lower costs for buyers and renters,&rdquo; said Governor Whitmer . &ldquo;Today&rsquo;s investments statewide will build and protect 484 homes while supporting more than 800 good-paying construction jobs. Together, let&rsquo;s build, baby build more housing and make our communities better places to live, work, and invest.&rdquo; &ldquo;Every day at MSHDA, we&rsquo;re focused on expanding Michigan&rsquo;s housing supply, because more homes mean lower rents and more options for Michiganders,&rdquo; said Tony Lentych, MSHDA Deputy Director and Chief Housing Investment Officer . &ldquo;By investing in new development and rehabilitation of existing properties, we&rsquo;re helping ease the pressure on the housing market and bringing stability and opportunity to more communities across the state.&rdquo; LIHTCs are federal tax credits allocated by MSHDA following a competitive application process. Developers can claim credit against their tax liability annually for up to 10 years. The following projects received LIHTC awards: 130 E. Grand Boulevard Apartments , Detroit &ndash; Credit Awarded: $1,650,000 This is a new affordable housing development sponsored by Communities First, Inc, and Church of the Messiah Housing Corp. With an expected total development cost of $25,841,705, the project is financed through a combination of 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan from JPMorgan Chase Bank. The project will feature 32 one-bedroom and 18 two-bedroom units available to tenants earning between 30% and 80% of the Area Median Income (AMI), plus four market rate units. Nine units will receive project-based vouchers through the Detroit Housing Commission. Nineteen units will be designated as permanent supportive housing and will be supported by MSHDA rental assistance vouchers. The development of 130 E. Grand Boulevard Apartments is expected to create five permanent and 65 temporary jobs. Allen Crossing III , Muskegon &ndash; Credit Awarded: $1,273,492 This is a new affordable housing development sponsored by Spire Development, Inc., the Muskegon Heights Housing Commission, and Little River Development, LLC. With an expected total development cost of $11,911,262, the project is financed through a combination of 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan from RiverHills Bank. Upon completion, the development will offer 42 one- and two-bedroom units for households earning between 30% and 80% of AMI. The development of Allen Crossing III is expected to create 63 temporary jobs and two permanent positions. Alpine Senior Apartments , Grand Rapids &ndash; Credit Awarded: $1,410,000 This is a new affordable housing development sponsored by Volker Development, Inc, Little River Development, LLC, and Equity First Community Development, LLC. With an expected total development cost of $16,054,884, the project is financed through a combination of 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan from Merchants Capital. Upon completion, the development will offer 52 one- and two-bedroom units for households earning between 30% and 70% of AMI with 10 project-based rental assistance vouchers from the Grand Rapids Housing Commission. The development of Alpine Senior Apartments is expected to create 58 temporary jobs and 3 permanent positions. Brown City Homes , Brown City - Credit Awarded: $743,058 This is a new affordable housing development in Brown City sponsored by Maple Valley Real Estate, LLC and Cove Investments with an expected total development cost of $6,910,542 which will be financed through a combination of 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan from Cinnaire. This project will consist of 27 single family modular home units. These will consist of six two-bedroom units, 15 three-bedroom units and six four-bedroom units. The units will be available to individuals earning between 30% and 80% of AMI. Additionally, tenants will have the option of purchasing these homes at the end of the 15-year LIHTC compliance period. The development is expected to create two permanent and 21 temporary jobs. Froebel Place , Muskegon &ndash; Credit Awarded: $1,285,000 This is a new affordable housing development in Muskegon, sponsored by Samaritas, Garrett Family Community Partners and Little River Development, LLC. The project is expected to have a total development cost of $16,134,643, financed with 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan from Mercantile Bank. The project will feature two studio, 35 one-bedroom, six two-bedroom and three, three-bedroom units available to tenants earning between 30% and 80% of AMI. Seven units will receive project-based rental assistance vouchers through the Muskegon Housing Commission. The Froebel Place project is expected to create one permanent and 50 temporary jobs. Lighthouse Ridge Apartments , South Haven Township - Credit Awarded: $1,500,000 This is a new affordable housing development sponsored by Wallick Development, Inc, Bogan Asset Management, LLC, and Jigwe, LLC. With an expected total development cost of $15,641,873, the project is financed through a combination of 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan provided by Merchants Capital. Upon completion, the development will offer 52 two- and three-bedroom units for households earning between 30% and 80% of AMI. The development of Lighthouse Ridge is expected to create 60 temporary jobs and two permanent positions. Northern Pines , Battle Creek &ndash; Credit Awarded: $1,650,000 This is a new affordable housing development sponsored by UP Holdings, Inc, and the Battle Creek Housing Commission. With an expected total development cost of $16,991,312, the project is financed through a combination of 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan from IFF. The project will feature 55 one-bedroom units available to tenants earning between 30% and 60% of AMI, plus one employee unit. Forty-six units will receive project-based rental assistance vouchers through the Battle Creek Housing Commission. Twenty-eight of the voucher units will be designated as permanent supportive housing. The development of Northern Pines is expected to create six permanent and 100 temporary jobs. Union Suites on Coit II , Grand Rapids &ndash; Credit Awarded: $1,469,300 This is the second phase of the new affordable project in Grand Rapids known as Union Suites on Coit and is sponsored by Union Suites Development LLC, Dwelling Place of Grand Rapids, Little River Development LLC and Bitter Water Edge Water Development LLC. The phase is expected to have a total development cost of $17,765,538, financed with 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan from Churchill Mortgage Investment, LLC. This phase will feature 20 one-bedroom units, 21 two-bedroom units and 11 three-bedroom units for tenants earning between 30% and 80% AMI. Additionally, eight units will receive project-based rental assistance vouchers through the Wyoming Housing Commission. This phase is expected to create 1.5 permanent and 191 temporary jobs. Villages of Parkside &ndash; Phase III , Detroit &ndash; Credit Awarded: $1,565,000 This will be the third phase in the redevelopment of the existing Villages of Parkside community in Detroit. The project will be sponsored by Ginosko Development Company and Infinite Horizons Group, Inc. This phase is expected to have a total development cost of $22,903,159, financed with 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan from Citibank. This phase will include 10 one-bedroom, 23 two-bedroom, 16 three-bedroom and five four-bedroom units. These units will be available for tenants earning between 40% and 60% of AMI. Additionally, 27 units will receive project-based rental assistance vouchers from the Detroit Housing Commission. This phase is expected to create 130 temporary jobs. Villages of Parkside &ndash; Phase IV , Detroit &ndash; Credit Awarded: $1,570,000 This will be the fourth phase in the redevelopment of the existing Villages of Parkside community in Detroit. The project is sponsored by Ginosko Development Company and Infinite Horizons Group, Inc. This phase is expected to have a total development cost of $21,031,305, financed with 9% LIHTC and a permanent loan from Citibank. This phase will include 10 one-bedroom, 23 two-bedroom, 16 three-bedroom and five four-bedroom units. These units will be available for tenants earning between 40% and 60% of AMI. Additionally, 25 units will receive project-based rental assistance vouchers from the Detroit Housing Commission. This phase is expected to create 117 temporary jobs. ### Labor and Economic Opportunity MI Newswire Labor and Economic Opportunity Related News Gov. Whitmer Announces Construction of More Than 600 Rental Units Across Michigan, Nearly $19 Million in Federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credits Michigan State Housing Development Authority Launches Public Survey to Shape Michigan’s Next Statewide Housing Plan BMCC Names 2026 Terrence R. Duvernay Award Recipient MSHDA Board Approves Funding for 490 Affordable Housing Units Gov. Whitmer Announces MSHDA Helps Record 6,000+ Michiganders Become Homeowners in 2025 MSHDA leader applauds Governor Whitmer for prioritizing housing in FY 2027 state budget recommendation MSHDA leader applauds FY 2026 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill passage MSHDA Invests $2.61 Billion to Expand Housing Opportunities for Nearly 45,000 Michiganders in FY 2025 MSHDA Invests $16.3 Million in Low-Income Housing Tax Credits to Advance Affordable Housing Goals in Michigan State Budget Ensures MSHDA Can Continue Tackling Michigan&#39;s Housing Crisis Follow us Governor Whitmer Announces Funding to Build and Preserve 484 Affordable Rental Homes Copyright State of Michigan Popular Popular Locators Combined Application for Rental Housing Programs MI Home Loan Countywide Area Median Income Initiatives Initiatives Campaign to End Homelessness Housing Choice Vouchers Market Research Fair Housing Investors Performance Performance Consumer Privacy Policies and Practices MSHDA FOIA How To Report Fraud Language Assistance Services | Servicios de Asistencia de Idiomas | خدمات المساعدة اللغوية About About About MSHDA Careers at MSHDA Contact MSHDA Event Calendar Press Releases Join Our Mailing List Copyright 2026 State of Michigan Mi.gov Home Policies Accessibility Disability Resources Language Services FOIA Directory Departments document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", function() { var s = document.createElement('script'); s.type = 'text/javascript'; s.async = true; s.src = 'https://widget.botcopy.com/js/injection.js'; document.getElementById('botcopy-embedder-d7lcfheammjct').appendChild(s); var chatbotFrameworkScript = document.createElement("script"); chatbotFrameworkScript.src = "/content/StaticFiles/Common/ConfigureBotCopy.min.js"; document.body.appendChild(chatbotFrameworkScript); window.addEventListener('load', function() { configureBotCopy(false); }); }); 